In this video demonstrate some of the features of the sphere distributed switch and some of the policies
that we can configure.
Now some of these policies are also available on the VSE for standard switch.
So I'll try to differentiate which features are available on both.
But right now I'm really going to primarily focus on features that are only available on the VSE for
distributed switch.
So here we are.
And the networking view of the Vee's for web client and I've clicked on my demo.
For distributed twitch and I can see things like the properties.
What the empty view is configured for that's an important property.
What discovery protocol has been configured.
And right now it's configured for CTP or Cisco discovery protocol.
Now this is a feature that is available on both the VSE fair distributed and vse for standard virtual
switches.
CTP is supported on both and what CTP does for us is it allows us to actually discover and learn information
about the physical switches that our hosts are connected to.
Right.
So this particular environment has to ESX host and each ESX I host has two physical adapters two physical
even at ports CTP would allow me to look here on the Vee's for web client and see which switch ports
they're connected to.
Right and discover information about the physical switch that's supported on a standard switch in a
distributed switch.
And that is unique to Cisco switches Cisco discovery protocol is only supported by Cisco.
If I have some other vendor then I can instead choose to use Lingpa Claire discovery protocol or Al
LDP.
Now this is an important one for the exam LDP is only supported by the vees fair distributed switch.
That's it.
So I can choose either one of those discovery protocols and enable them on the vees fair distributed
switch.
Here we can see my typology.
I've got one virtual machine and I've got one physical adapter.
On one host and one physical adapter and another host we can also configure link aggregation control
protocol or elhi ECP what L.A. C.P. allows us to do is to bond multiple physical connections together
and basically allow them to act as if they are one big physical connection.
This is only available with the for distributed switch.
And it's not available on TVs for standard virtual switch.
And you can see here it's got all these different load balancing modes.
How is that going to spread traffic across these physical adapters.
And so what you'll do is you'll combine the physical adapters together into something called the link
aggregation group or lag so we'll call it a lag and we're going to put two ports in this link aggregation
group and we're going to go with a certain mode of LCP.
Now this has to be supported by a physical switch.
What you're basically doing is you're taking two or more physical adapters and you're telling your virtual
switch and your physical switch to treat them as one big pipe.
And you can see more on that and some of the other videos included with this course.
But that's how you would go ahead and create a new link aggregation group for al-Asi P Here's our private
villans again a feature that's only supported by the Vee's fair distributed which we have the ability
to create a VPN within a violin.
So here we can see on primary violin one maybe I want to establish some secondary valence right.
Maybe I'll call this one.
Secondary violin 101 and secondary V LAN to 0 1 and we'll make one of the community and we'll make one
of them isolative what we're doing here when we create these private villans is we're basically establishing
boundaries inside of the land one so I can hook up a bunch of virtual machines to primary Villon one
secondary VLAN one and they'll all be able to communicate
and they'll all be able to communicate just fine.
I can also hook up a bunch of virtual machines to primary violin one secondary violin one to one
let's add one more let's add secondary VLA and one or two as well which is also a community in
OK.
So I could take a bunch of Reems hook them up to primary veel and one secondary violin one to one and
they'd all be able to communicate.
I could do the same thing with primary Viola and one secondary violin and one or two.
Those are community lands meaning anything within that community can talk.
OK so just to recap what I've created here.
Primary Villon one secondary veel and one this is promiscuous.
It means anything that's connected to secondary Villon one can talk to anything else inside of Villon
one including communities and isolated secondary violence the community villans are allowed to communicate
with anything inside of their community.
And anything in that promiscuous secondary Vueling the isolated secondary Villalon means they cannot
communicate with each other.
Right I could have 20 of them connected to the secondary isolated.
They are not allowed to communicate.
They can only communicate with the promiscuous feeling and that's it.
So that's my private Vilain.
And if we take a look at this test V.M. and go ahead and edit settings on it I'll show you how we can
connect the virtual machine to one of those private villans right so you can see right now my virtual
machine is connected to the distributed switch port group right which is actually exactly where I've
just created those private secondary violence.
And so if I go back to my Vee's for distributed switch I can now go ahead and create myself a Newport
group which I'm going to call isolated I'll choose next and then I'll choose the and type and I'm going
to make this support group with one of my private villans and I'm going to choose my isolated secondary
Villalon.
And now any virtual machines that I connect to that isolated poor group will not be able to communicate
to anything other than the promiscuous secondary view in.
So here is my network adapter.
I can go ahead and change the network and connected to that isolated secondary violin.
And now I've configured private violence on my Vee's fair distributed switch.
OK let's take a look at some of the other settings that we can configure on the VSE for distributed
switch.
I can set up Netflix.
So what net flow is going to do is it's going to allow me to establish an IP address of a net flow collector.
So I'm going to go ahead and put in an address of an outflow collector in my environment here.
And I also need to establish an IP address for the VSE fair distributed switch it's self so that it
has the ability to communicate with the collector.
And what it's essentially going to do is the Vee's for distributed which is going to send little summaries
called flows to the net flow collector.
For example if a virtual machine communicates with an e-mail server on a certain port and sends a certain
amount of data it's going to summarize that traffic and send a traffic flow to the net flow collector.
And it will continuously report all of the traffic that's going up.
Right.
So that this net flow collector will have a complete comprehensive history of all of these traffic patterns.
And then I can use that net flow collector to do things like analysis for troubleshooting.
All right so for example let's say that everybody says hey at o'clock on Monday everything always gets
really slow.
Well that's kind of hard to troubleshoot after the fact especially if the issue has gone away.
But if you have a net flow collector you can go into it and say OK what was going on at two o'clock
on Monday.
Was there a lot of traffic happening.
You know if not maybe it's some other sort of problem.
So that's net flow and net flow is only available on the Vee's for distributed switch.
Same with port mirroring port mirroring is only available on the Vee's for distributed switch.
So here we can see there are a number of different port mirroring session types that you can establish.
The most basic of which is a distributed port mirroring session.
So we're a distributed port mirroring session is going to do is it's essentially going to take all of
the traffic that is going to one of my ports on my virtual switch and mirror all of that traffic to
a different port.
So if you wanted to hook up let's say wireshark right and have it sit there and capture all the traffic
that's going to one specific virtual machine you could do that using port mirroring right will now allow
normal traffic on the ports that are being mirrored.
And I'm going to go hadn't hit next here.
And what we'll now do is just go ahead and choose what is the source port What's the destination port.
Right now at the moment I've only got one virtual machine hooked up to this Vee's for distributed switch.
But you can kind of get the idea right.
I pick my source port here and then I'd go to the destination and I pick another poor.
And all of this traffic that happened on the source port would be mirrored to the destination port.
It would receive an identical copy of all that traffic.
So if I'm using something like wireshark I can capture and analyze all of the traffic that's hitting
a particular port.
Right.
And this is just one of the session types that are available to me.
I could set up other Portmeirion sessions that can mirror traffic to an uplink port instead of one of
my distributed ports or I could mirror traffic from a set of violence to a distributed port or it could
even send my port mirrored traffic to a remote IP address.
So there's a lot of different options here for those port mirroring Sessions again for the certification
test.
Remember allée C.P. private villans net flow port marrying and LDP or link where discovery protocol.
Those are all only supported by the VSE for distributed switch another feature that is only supported
by the vees fair distributed switch is health check.
And by the way this is disabled by default.
You'll see that it's disabled by default.
That's a good thing right.
Health check actually introduces a little bit of security vulnerability into your environment so you
should only turn this on if you are maybe configuring a new physical switch or setting up a new ESX
I host.
And here's what health check is going to do.
I'm going to go ahead and enable it.
What health check is going to do is it's going to validate that the land and M2 settings and the teaming
settings that you've configured on your physical ESX I host are actually compatible with what has been
configured on the physical Ethernet switch.
So that's kind of the goal here of of the health check is to basically validate.
OK.
You know what we've configured on this particular ESX I host actually matches up to two what we've configured
on the physical switches self.
Right.
So if we look at for example the switch 0 there is going to be settings in here like MT you or there's
going to be settings on the port groups like for example if you look at VM network it's got a really
an identifier.
If those villans don't match what's on the physical switch if the empty you doesn't match what's on
the physical switch.
If my nic teaming method isn't a good match for what the physical switches configured for we're going
to find out about all of that information right here.
OK so let's go ahead and jump back to our Wii's for distributed switch.
The final feature that I want to show you here is network IO control.
So you can see at the moment network IO control is enabled.
We're running network control version 3.
And what it's doing is it's basically prioritizing all of the different types of system traffic.
Right.
So we've got fault tolerance logging management traffic and a fast virtual machine traffic itself.
The actual traffic that my venoms are generating.
I scuzzy right the motion all these different types of traffic.
And what is essentially doing is it's saying OK you know VM traffic has 100 shares where as I scuzzy
traffic only has 50.
So if there is bandwidth contention that's the only time these shares are enforced.
I mean if my physical adapters are congested if they're running low on bandwidth what will happen is
network control will give twice as much bandwidth to virtual machine traffic as it will give to ice
Gussie and I can modify all these and I can say you know what for I scuzzy I want to go ahead and give
a high number of shares right.
I want to make it.
It's really important right.
Maybe I even want to go as far as reserving 50 megabits per second of bandwidth right.
And maybe for things like Wii motion traffic or let's let's go these for replication.
Right maybe for VSE for replication.
I want to say OK you know what I'm going to set a limit right.
I have set a limit here.
I don't want these for replication ever consuming more than 75 megabits per second of bandwidth so I'll
go ahead and set a limit there and maybe I'll even Also go ahead and edit this and I'll give it a low
priority.
So that way if bandwidth contention does occur everything else will be prioritized over the Wii's for
replication traffic.
And that's what network IO control is right.
It's essentially share's limits and reservations that are applied to bandwidth of my actual physical
VM next.
And I can also create network resource pools.
So let's go ahead and create a network resource pool I'm going to call it that work resource pool 1.
And my description is going to be high priority.
I'm not going to give it any reservation.
So now I've created a network resource pool it's called network resource pool 1.
And what I can do is I can utilize this to control the bandwidth for my distributed poor groups.
I can go ahead and associate distributed groups with this network resource pool and go ahead and do
things like Reserve bandwidth for those special distributed groups that are really important.
So maybe I'll give this network resource pool a reservation of 50 megabits per second and then all the
associated distributed poorer group with the network resource pool.
In this case I'm not actually going to do that.
I'm actually going to delete this network resource pool before I forget it's there.
OK.
So that's some of the features that are available on the Vee's for distributed switch and Ulos is other
lecturers in this course that dig into these topics as well.
But I wanted to show you a real live demo of how many of these common features are actually configured.